Getting Started

“Empty Database”

Set Up Maxum
Analyzers

Set Up Optichrom
Advance Analyzers

On an “empty database” do these things.

1.

Configure MODBUS slave and serial port: Using Advance System
Manager, enter a value in the modbus setting attribute of the Sys-
tem Control table.

If an address map does not exist, create one using Microsoft ExcelO.
You will need to know the analyzer %, application %, stream %, and
trtval 4 for every result that the system needs to handle. You will also
need to know the specific customer requirements for host computer
controls and information. See the Formula for Map Size section to
determine if the system can handle the number of addresses re-
quired. 4000 addresses are a good rule of thumb for this limitation,
but certain configurations may allow more or less addresses. The
reason for this is that a map with more flags defined, as opposed to
results, takes up less room than a map with mostly results. The limit
for a map with only analyzer status and results may be less than
4000. Note that a much larger map may be successfully loaded, but
when the NAU goes through a reset, the database cannot be rebuilt.

Load the address map: Use Advance System Manager's Load
MODBUS utility (under Tools/Advance Tools/Loader/Load
MODBUS) to add the address map to the NAU.

Use the Advance System Manager to add the NAU to the host table
of the “sending” analyzers. Use Type 6 and set anlzref to the NAU's
analyzer id. If the NAU does not appear in the list box, wait until it
broadcasts (10-15 minutes).

Use the Advance System Manager to make entries in the “sending
analyzer” result table to indicate which component values to send.
Indicate the result values to send by placing an integer value in the
TRTVAL to indicate the result 4 in the address map. EUHI values are
set in the result table. The NAU's address map will direct the result
to a specific MODBUS address using the anlz, application, stream,
and result attributes in the address map table (modbus addmap).

Set up the Optichrom Advance's results and events exactly as done
for transmitting to an HCI-H.

The NAU will need to have a loop, unit defined in order to receive
Advance Data Hiway messages. Define the loop and unit under Ad-
vance System Manager/System Tables/System control or on the
MMI/Menu/Setup/System.

2000584-001

Maxum MODBUS User's Guide e 31
