Maxum MODBUS Address Map, Continued

Address Map Limits

Creating and Loading
a Map

The address map is limited to 4000-4500 addresses. This will be suffi-
cient to handle an old-style Optichrom HCI-H map for 18 applications/

9 streams/ 9 results. A custom address map may have any combination
of types of values, with the only requirement being a result or result plus
EUHI for every component transmitted to the NAU and an analyzer
status for every application tagged to transmit results. A much larger
map may be successfully loaded, but, when the NAU goes through a
reset, the database cannot be rebuilt.

Use a text editor or Microsoft Excel to create a map.
Load the map onto the NAU with System Manager.

Use the following to configure Maxums to transmit results:

1. Mark results for transmit using the trtval and euhi attributes of
the result table.

2. Mark stream for transmission using the autotrt attribute in the
stream method table.

3. Designate NAU to receive results, using the host table
type:6, anizref:NAU's anlz id
or

Version 3.1 (after patch): The following format was developed
for use by NAUSs that are used to gather results from 3 party
analyzers and transmit them to a host. This will allow for running
a MaxBasic program that transmits by frequency using the
trtnow attribute in the stream method table. An application and
streams will need to be created to create the results in the result
table. Store Al or other values in result table. Set up additional
results with these specific result names:

Analyzerstatus — set to status as in HCI-H (required)

Currentstream — set saved value to the next stream

Standby - set to 1 for running, O for hold

Alarmstream - set for stream alarm

Alarmantlz — set to anlz alarm

Alarmapp — set to application alarm

Dedicatedstream — set to dedicated stream

Cyclelength — set to cycle length

Skipstream — set saved value to stream that is enabled (positive)
or disablednegative)

Calibrate — set to 1 ifin calibration

16 «e Maxum MODBUS User's Guide 2000584-001
