MODBUS Primer

MODBUS Message
Format

Message Content

Protocol Formats

The MODBUS protocol is based on polling. One master device polls one
or more slave devices. The master sends commands (queries) to the
slaves. The slaves wait for commands from the master. If a command is
directed to a particular MODBUS slave, the slave sends a response.
Some commands can also be broadcast to all slaves at once. The
Maxum MODBUS implementation does not support broadcast mes-
sages.

The message content is always:

Slave Function-Code String of Data Bytes
1 byte 1 byte N bytes

Message Content

Each message begins with a one byte slave identifier (Slavef). Slaves
are configured with identifiers between 1 and 255 inclusive. Slave identi-
fier O (zero) is used in the commands broadcast to all slaves. Broadcast
messages are not supported in the Maxum MODBUS. Note: MODICON
documentation specifies 1 to 247 for slave identifiers, reserving 248
through 255 for special equipment, but other vendors frequently allow 1
to 255 for slave identifiers.

The second byte of the message indicates the function code (Function-
Code). For commands, this byte has a value between 0 and 127 inclu-
sive. For responses, the function code values range from 1 to 127 if
there was no error and from 128 to 255 if there was an error. Slaves in-
dicate errors by sending a response with 128 added to the function code
and sending an error code as the String Of Data Bytes.

The String Of Data Bytes has a length that depends upon the function
code and whether the MODBUS Master is sending the message (Com-
mand) ora MODBUS Slave is sending the message (Response). For
some function codes, the length of the String Of Data Bytes can vary. If
the length can vary, there is always one byte, which indicates the num-
ber of bytes, 1 to 255, in the variable portion.

In the MODBUS protocol there are two formats for sending messages,
MODBUS RTU and MODBUS ASCII (not supported by the Maxum). The
message content is the same in each format. Both formats have check-
sums, but the checksum methods are different. All of the MODBUS de-
vices on a communications link must use the same message format and
the same communication parameters (e.g. baud rate).

2000584-001

Maxum MODBUS User's Guide e 35
