Host / Analyzer Communications, Continued

Information Available
When Defined in
Address Map,
continued

Host Computer
Settings

Calibration (Value type: CALIBRATE)
Valid Addresses: 0001-9999

This flag can be defined for each analyzer/application/stream and is set
by the Maxum analyzer when the application is in manual or auto calibra-
tion. See Host operations in the next section for a discussion of Host
calibration control.

Cycle Length (Value type: CYCLELENGTH)
Valid Addresses: 30001-49999

This integer (data type S or |) is set by the Maxum analyzer to be the
longest cycle time in the Maxum's method table for an application, even
unused methods.

The Host can direct an application to start or stop running — see page 12,
Analyzer Standby.

Analyzer control (Value type: STANDBY)
Valid Addresses: 0001-9999

Calibration control (Value type: CALIBRATE)
Valid Addresses: 0001-9999

The Host can direct an application to calibrate or stop calibrate by setting
the calibrate flag, defined on each analyzer/application/stream, for any
stream in an application. If set by the Host, a message is sent to the
Maxum analyzer to place the application in auto calibration (1 or True) or
stop calibration (0 or False). In either case, if the analyzer is in hold, it
will be placed in run state. If auto calibration is not enabled for the appli-
cation, it will be placed in manual calibration. Although each stream can
be defined, it is recommended for only one stream (any stream in the
application). There may be operational differences for calibration when
the Maxum MODBUS interface is implemented for Advance Optichrom
analyzers.

Stream control (Value type: SELECTSTREAM. SKIPSTREAM)
Valid Addresses: 0001-9999

The selectstream flag, defined on each analyzer/application/stream, can
be set by the Host to cause a Force Always condition (1 or True) or a
Resume sequence (0 or False) on the Maxum stream. The skipstream
flag can be set to control Maxum stream enable/disable, as described in
the previous section.

2000584-001

Maxum MODBUS User's Guide «e 13
