Maxum MODBUS Basics

Purpose This manual provides detailed information about the hardware and soft-
ware protocol required to interface a computer to the Maxum"” system
(starting with Maxum Version 3.0). The connection between an external
computer and the Maxum is made via a serial, digital communication
link. The purpose of the connection is to allow Maxum and Optichrom
Advance analyzers to transmit the results of chromatographic analyses
to the external computer and to allow the external computer to perform
certain control operations of a Maxum or Optichrom Advance analyzer.

Definition of Terms Term

Definition

Coil

MODICON term for a Boolean value, also described as a
flag.

Float

A data element representing an Analog value using IEEE
standard 32-bit floating point format.

HCHH

HOST Computer Communications Interface — HIWAY, the
Advance Optichrom system's MODBUS protocol interface.

Host

An external computer system which acts as the MODBUS
master and requests data from the Maxum system.

Master

MODBUS systems require one master device (host) which
sends requests to one or more slave devices.

Maxum

Siemens" Advance Maxum product line of gas analyzers
and network devices.

MODBUS

Communications protocol, defined by Gould, Inc. for the
Gould MODICON, that has become a de facto standard for
data communications.

Advance Network Access Unit (NAU) provides general pur-
pose I/O for Advance Maxum systems. Any Maxum unit
can be configured for this purpose, but it is recommended
that it be done on a dedicated unit.

Optichrom

Siemens" Advance OptichromB product line of gas analyz-
ers and network devices, the predecessor to the Maxum
product line.

Register

MODICON term for a 16-bit 2's complement integer value,
also described as a Word.

RTU

Remote Terminal Unit, MODBUS RTU is a format where
values are transmitted in binary form.

Slave

MODBUS device that passively waits for requests from a
MODBUS master device.

2 e Maxum MODBUS User's Guide

2000584-001
