Maxum MODBUS Address Map

Description

General Map Rules

To have working communication among the Maxum unit(s), MODBUS,
and Host, you must have an address map customized to user specifica-
tions. The Maxum MODBUS Address Map is a text file used for loading
the Advance Network Access Unit (NAU) with details for processing the
following:

e Maxum analyzer results to be placed at certain addresses so the
host computer can read them.

e control requests sent from the host computer to be directed to
Maxum analyzers.

The map contains details about all addresses configured to send and
receive data. Since no assumptions are made about what is contained at
an address, the data type and a value type indicate what kind of informa-
tion is stored at an address and any actions to be taken. For example, a
RDME flag is set to “True” from the analyzer and reset to “False” 3 sec-
onds after the host reads it. The value column in the Modbus addmap
table in System Manager contains information in readable format, not the
format the Modbus Driver sends to the Host. A scaled result will be in
the pre-scaled format, as it appears in the result table.

An address map may be configured by Siemens according to customer
requirements or configured by the customer — either by using a general
default map or by editing that map to meet specific requirements. Micro-
soft Excel is used as the configuration tool for Version 3.0, by editing the
map and saving it in comma delimited (.CSV) format. The resulting text
file can be loaded onto the NAU by using Advance System Man-
ager/Tools/Advance Tools/Loader/MODBUS Load. An unload utility is
also available.

Each transmitted result must be defined in the address map, and each
transmitting application must have a status in the map.

For every result that the system needs to handle, have the following
available:

* the analyzer number

* application number

* stream number

* result number (trtval value)

In addition, have on hand the specific customer requirements for host
computer controls and information.

New in 4.0: As the map is loaded onto the analyzer using Advance Utili-
ties/Loader/Modbus Load, duplicate addresses that contain the same
information will be removed. That is, two addresses for result 1/ ana-
lyzer 14/application 1/stream 2 are not allowed and will be removed dur-
ing loading of the map.

2000584-001

Maxum MODBUS User's Guide e 15
