Host / Analyzer Communications, Continued

Information Available
When Defined in
Address Map,
continued

Stream active flags (Value type: CURRENTSTREAM)
Valid Addresses: 0001-9999

This flag can be defined for each analyzer/application/stream and is set
by the Maxum analyzer. The flag tells the Host which stream will be the
next to report

Stream skip flags (Value type: SKIPSTREAM)
Valid Addresses: 0001-9999

This flag can be defined for each analyzer/application/stream. Itis set by
the Maxum analyzer and tells the Host if the stream is enabled (0 or
False) or disabled (1 or True). If set by the Host, this flag causes a mes-
sage to be sent to the Maxum analyzer to disable or enable the stream.

Dedicated Stream (Value type: DEDICATEDSTREAM)
Valid Addresses: 30001-49999

This integer (data type S or |) can be defined for an analyzer/application
and is set by the Maxum analyzer. It tells the Host if a stream is running
on a dedicated basis (Force Always or Force Once). If the value is 0,
there is no dedicated stream.

Alarm status (Value type: ALARM)
Valid Addresses: 30001-49999

This integer (data type 1) can be defined for each analyzer, ana-
lyzer/application, and analyzer/application/stream. It contains the latest
alarm code for fault alarms. Note that the ALARM defined for the ana-
Iyzer corresponds directly with the red light on the front of the MMI. An
ALARM defined for the stream or application, will reflect the contents of
the curr error attributes in the stream and application table. These can
only be cleared by the completion of a cycle without alarms. This means
that the analyzer ALARM can be zero, but the stream and application
can reflect an alarm condition.

Analyzer standby (Value type: STANDBY)
Valid Addresses: 0001-9999

This flag can be defined for each analyzer/application and is set by the
Maxum analyzer. The flag tells the host if the application is in hold, out of
service, or disabled. If set by the Host, a message is sent to the Maxum
analyzer to place the application in hold (1 or True) or run (0 or False).

12 « Maxum MODBUS User's Guide 2000584-001
