a.
FLOWSERVE
Ne *

Valbart

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8

2 Safety Information

21

2.2

Intended use

AN me valve must not be operated beyond the parameters specified for the application. If
there is any doubt as to the suitability of the valve for the application intended, contact
Flowserve for advice, quoting the serial number.

nstalling, operating, or maintaining the valve in any way that is not covered in this User
nstruction could cause death, serious personal injury, or damage to the equipment.
his includes any modification to the valve or use of the parts not provided by
Flowserve.

Only operate the valve when it has successful passed all inspection acceptance
criteria

Do not operate the valve in a partially assembled condition.

f the conditions of service on the customer's purchase order change (i.e. pumping
luid, temperature, or duty conditions) it is requested that the user seeks written
agreement from Flowserve before start Up.

Observe equipment labels, such as arrows designating the direction of rotation,
warning signs, etc., and keep them in a legible condition. Replace any damaged
and/or ilegible labels immediately.

Safety symbols and description

This User Instruction contains specific safety markings where non-observance of an instruction
would cause a hazard. The specific safety markings are:

Table 1: Definition of safety symbols and markings

Symbol Description

DANGER

This symbol indicates a hazardous situation which, if not
avoided, will result in death or serious injury

WARNING
This symbol indicates a hazardous situation which, if not
avoided, could result in death or serious injury

CAUTION
his symbol indicates a hazardous situation which, if not
avoided, could result in minor or moderate injury

Safety Instruction
his symbol indicates specific safety-related instruction or
procedures

NOTICE
his symbol is used to address practices not related to

physical injury

his is the safety alert symbol. It is used to alert you to
potential physical injury hazards. Obey all safety messages
hat follow this symbol to avoid possible injury or death.

Page 6 of 35

