—
FLOWSERVE
“id

1.2

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8
General Information

Scope of manual

AN mese instructions must be kept close to the product's operating location or directly with
the product.

AN tese instructions must be read prior to installing, operating, using, or maintaining the
equipment in any region worldwide. The equipment must not be put into service until all of the
safe operating conditions noted in the instructions have been met. Failure to comply with the
information provided in the User Instructions is considered to be misuse. Personal injury, product
damage, delay in operation, or product failure caused by misuse are not covered by the
Flowserve warranty.

The following instructions are applicable to the maintenance and installation of Flowserve
Valbart 2 Piece Split Body Trunnion Mounted Ball Valves Bolted Body Side Entry (model VB2) for
general service.

Metric DIN Units - PN 20 to PN 420, DN 100 full bore and DN 150 x 100
English ASME Units - Class 150 to 2500, NPS 4 full bore and NPS 6 x 4
Assembled with manual gear, pneumatic/hydraulic or electric actuator.

These instructions cannot claim to cover all details of all possible product variations, nor can
they provide information for every possible example of installation, operation or maintenance.
This means that the instructions normally include only the directions to be followed by qualified
personal using the product for its defined purpose. If there are any uncertainties in this respect,
particularly in the event of missing product-related information, clarification must be obtained
via the appropriate Flowserve sales office.

These instructions are intended to familiarize the reader with the product and its permitted use.
Operating the product in compliance with these instruction is important to help ensure
reliability in service and avoid risks. These instructions may not take into account all local
regulations; ensure such regulations are observed by all, including those installing the product.
Always coordinate repair activities with operations personnel, and follow all plant safety
requirements and applicable safety and health legislation.

Disclaimer

Information in this User Instruction is believed to be complete and reliable. In spite of all
Flowserve's efforts to provide comprehensive information and instructions, sound engineering
and safety practices should always be used. Please consult with a qualified engineer.

Flowserve manufactures products to applicable International Quality Management System
Standards as certified and audited by external Quality Assurance organizations. Genuine parts
and accessories have been designed, tested, and incorporated into the products to help
ensure continued product quality and performance in use. As Flowserve cannot test parts and
accessories sourced from other vendors the incorrect incorporation of such parts and
accessories may adversely affect the performance and safety features of the product. The
failure to properly select, install, or use authorized Flowserve parts and accessories is
considered to be misuse. Damage or failure caused by misuse is not covered by Flowserve's
warranty. In addition, any modification of Flowserve products or removal of original
components may impair the safety of these products in use.

Valbart declines any responsibility should the valve not be used for the service indicated on
the client's data sheets.

Page 4 of 35
