—
FLOWSERVE
“id

Valbart

3.3
3.3.1

3.3.2

3.3.3

3.4
3.4.1

3.4.2

3.4.3

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8

sealing action is achieved by the thrust of the springs acting on the seat rings. As the pressure
increases, the fluid pressure pushes the seat rings against the ball.

3 Anti-blowout stem

Stem is retained by the stem cover (other designs available on request).

4 Anti-static design

The electrical continuity between all the metallic components is guaranteed and certified.
5 Floating seat rings

Two independent floating seat rings assure the bi-directional tightness of the valve. The seats
are carefully designed to minimize the torque required to operate the valves without losing
sealing power, which is assured from zero differential pressure to the valve's maximum rated
pressure. Self-relieving seats are supplied as a standard feature. Double piston or combination
seats (self-relieving/upstream, double piston/down-stream) can be supplied upon request.

6 Emergency sealant injection

Each valve is supplied complete with emergency sealant injection feature located between
the upper lip seal and the graphite gasket.

Connections

Electrical power connections

In case of the valve is equipped with electric actuator, refer to the actuator Installation,
Operation and Maintenance Manual for the details of these connections.

Mechanical connections

Valve ends can be Flanged RF or RTJ to ASME Bló.5.
Butt-weld ends to ASME B16.25 (others types of weld ends are available upon request).
Hub ends for clamped connect-ions are available as per customer specification.

Auxiliary connections

In case of the valve is equipped with pneumatic/hydraulic actuator, refer to the actuator
Installation, Operation and Maintenance Manual for the details of these connections.

Tools, equipment and fixtures for maintenance activities
Typical tools

- | Hydraulic tensioner for body/bonnet studs with UN/UNC tool series [x4]
- | Dynamometric wrench with metric Allen tool series [x1]

Typical equipment

- — Hydraulic high pressure pump unit [x1]

Typical fixtures

- Blind flange [x1] for each flanged end

Page 10 of 35
