“a.
FLOWSERVE
Ne *

albart

5
5.1

5.2

5.3

5.3.1

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8

Installation

Inspection and preparation

Remove the valve from crate or case by means of lifting lugs being careful not to damage the
valve ends and do not dent the paint.

Remove the protection discs and the corrosion protection coating from the ends.

Make sure that the relevant surfaces are not damaged and there are no loose parts.

To avoid bending stresses the valve and the line piping have to be correctly supported.
Unless specifically requested the valve is not designed for supporting external loads (e.g.
seismic loads).

In order to check the integrity of valve components and avoid damages due to wear, a
scheduled maintenance must be done (refer to Chapter 7).

Mounting

Before installation, fix the gear or the actuator to the valve top (if shipped separately take care
to not put grease between valve mounting flange and gear or actuator mounting flange),
tighten the operator bolting (14c, 13c) in accordance with the operator IOM bolt tightening
torque table, set the open and close position or verify the operator set-up in case the actuator
has been fixed on the top of the valve by Us.

It is strongly recommended to perform piping flushing before
NOTICE installation of the valve; if this is not possible, the valve must
be set with the ball in full open position before starting the

flushing .

Installation

Remove any foreign object from the valve bore.
Make sure that the valve is correctly placed and aligned with the line.
For bolted end valve be careful to use adequate gaskets and bolting.

Tighten the bolts gradually, in cross position with the proper loads recommended by the gasket
supplier or end user recommended practice.

Additional instructions for valve with welded end

A valve with weld ends without pup pipes should never be installed with the ball in closed
position.

During the installation of the valve the ball must be placed in fully open position. Failure to
keep the ball in fully open position during installation can cause damage to the valve.

the ball must remain in the closed position during assembly of the valve, cover with grease
he exposed surfaces of the ball. This will protect the ball ffom damage caused by weld
splatter.

For a welded end valve use an adequate welding procedure which shall limit the temperature
o maximum 100 ºC at 100 mm of distance from the seat ring rear face.

he use of transition pup is mandatory when this condition is not possible.

n case of welding to higher strength pipe the thickness of the component shall at least equal
o the ratio of minimum specified yield strength of the pipe to minimum specified yield strength
of the component.

he maximum thickness of the component shall not exceed 1.5 times the pipe thickness.
he use of transition pup is mandatory when the above condition cannot be achievable.

Page 17 of 35

