“a.
FLOWSERVE
Ne *

Valhart

4.4
44.1

4.4.2

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8
Storage

Standard packing

The valves shall be kept indoors, with actual valve temperature higher than the dew point,
unless otherwise specified in Flowserve contract requirements.

Before unpacking for installation, the valves (and relevant operators when applicable) shall
be kept inside their original package.

During the storage period, regular checks shall be made for package condition according to
the following instructions.

The integrity of packaging shall be checked on a monthly basis. If the wooden box is
damaged, the integrity of the envelopes (e.g. VCI film, plastic film) protecting the valves shall
be checked. If a damage is found on the envelope, the condition of exposed surfaces of
valves (and operators when applicable) shall be verified.

Upon satisfactory completion of inspection, the original package conditions shall be restored.

Refer to par. 8.1 for additional maintenance activities that must be carried out during storage
period.

In order to avoid ingress of foreign matter into the valve bore, the valve ends protectors shall
not be removed unless necessary for inspection, then securely replaced on completion of
inspection).

Special packing

The additional requirements stated in this paragraph shall be followed in case of special
packing including:

- | valves enclosed in waterproof vacuum-sealed barrier bags with desiccant bags;

- | humidity indicator placed on barrier bag;

- | wooden box with inspection window to check the humidity indicator.

In addition to the mandatory requirements stated in the previous para. 4.4.1, at least every
three months the humidity level on the humidity indicator shall be checked via the box
inspection window.

The desiccant bags shall be replaced every year or whenever necessary after checking the
waterproof barrier bag humidity indicator.

After replacing the desiccant bags and the humidity indicator, the waterproof barrier bag
shall be re-sealed, the vacuum inside the bag made again and the original package restored.

Page 16 of 35
