Si,
FLOWSERVE

Valha

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8
4 Packaging, Transportation and Storage

4.1 Consignment receipt

Immediately after receipt of the valve it must be checked against the delivery/shipping
documents for its completeness and that there has been no damage in transportation.

The following symbols are used to label the packaging (as applicable):

Table 3: Definition of packaging symbols and markings

Designation Symbol Explanation

The symbol should be applied to easily broken cargoes.
Cargoes marked with this symbol should be handled carefully
and should never be tipped over or slung.

Any other kind of point load should also be avoided with
Use no hooks cargoes marked with this symbol. The symbol does not
—

Fragile,
Handle with care

automatically prohibit the use of the plate hooks used for
handling bagged cargo.

The package must always be transported, handled and stored
in such a way that the arrows always point upwards. Rolling,
swinging, severe tipping or tumbling or other such handling must
be avoided. The cargo need not, however, be stored "on top”.

Top

Compliance with the symbolis best achieved if the cargo is kept
under the coolest possible conditions. In any event, it must be
Keep away kept away from additional sources of heat. It may be
from heat A! N- appropriate to enquire whether prevailing or anticipated
(solar radiation) AN temperatures may be harmful. This label should also be used for
goods, such as butter and chocolate, which anybody knows
should not be exposed to heat, in order to prevent losses.

Protect ftom “ Mg,

heat and V'g=º— Stowage as for the preceding symbol. The cargo must

radioactive AN additionally be protected from radioactivity.

sources =
The symbol indicates merely where the cargo should be slung,
but not the method of lifting. If the symbols are applied

Sling here equidistant from the middle or center of gravity, the package
willhang level if the slings are of identical length. If this is not the
case, the slinging equipment must be shortened on one side.

Page 12 of 35
