—
FLOWSERVE
“id

2.3
2.3.1

24

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8
Table 2: Additional symbols

Symbol Description
ELECTRICAL HAZARD
This symbol indicates electrical safety instructions where
non-compliance would affect personal safety and could
result in loss of life

TOXIC HAZARD

This symbol indicates “hazardous substances and toxic fluid"
/N safety instructions where non-compliance would affect

personal safety and would damage the equipment or

property

ATEX EXPLOSION PROTECTION

This symbol indicates explosive atmosphere marking

according to ATEX. It is used in safety instructions where non-

compliance in the hazardous area would cause the risk of

an explosion

General hazard sources
Mechanical Hazards
a) Lifting limits and guidelines

Note: The load values mentioned in this section are Flowserve recommendations only. All lifting
must be done in compliance with site safety protocol, local regulations, and related industry
standards.

Many precision parts have sharp corners which require appropriate personal protective
equipment during handling. Prior to any attempt to lift an item, employees must first determine
the approximate weight and stability of the load.

e Large, unstable, or awkward loads should always be handled with the assistance
of additional personnel or appropriate mechanical means.

e Loads in excess of 23kg (50 lb.) should only be lifted by appropriate mechanical
means and in accordance with current local legislation or with the assistance of
additional personnel.

e Lifting items less than 23kg (50 lb.) may be prohibited without assistance if the lift is
repetitive and/or awkward (i.e., away from the body, above the shoulders or below
the knees) thus placing excessive stress on the personnel.

e Repetitive lifting of any kind should be evaluated as part of a documented end-
user safety program.

Qualified personnel and targeted group

All personnel involved in the operation, installation and maintenance of the unit must be
qualified to carry out the work involved. If the personnel in question does not already possess
the necessary knowledge and skill, appropriate training and instruction must be provided. If
required the operator may commission the manufacturer / supplier to provide applicable
training.

Always co-ordinate repair activities with operation and health and safety personnel, and
follow all plant safety requirements and applicable safety and health laws and regulations.

Page 7 of 35
