“a.
FLOWSERVE
Ne *

Valhart

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8
6.2.3 Valve installed in a piping system

1. When the valve is installed in a piping system that requires hydrostatic testing, follow these
steps to minimize any damage that may occur to the sealing surfaces and seals in the valve
seats.

2. The valve must be with the ball in partially open position (approximately 10º to the fully
open position) and the drain port open when the flushing with the test fluid begins. This will
allow any piping system debris to be expelled through the drain port of the valve and/or
outside of the piping system.

3. Once allthe debris has been expelled out of through the drain port and the piping system
has been purged of debris, the valve must be placed in a half open position. This allows the
test fluid to enter into the valve body cavity.

4. Start the filling of test fluid.

5. The valve is ready to be pressure tested once it has been filed completely with the test
fluid through the piping system.

6. Apply the test pressure inside the valve body through the end and vent the air off through
the uppermost vent on the body (if any). Make sure to vent air off as much as possible.

7. Examine the entire surface of the valve and the body/closure joint and ascertain that no
drops, or sweating, or humidity is visible during the duration of the test.

8. Atthe end of the hydrostatic test, the valve must be placed in the fully open position
before removing the test fluid from the piping system. The test fluid in the body cavity can be
drained through the drain opening located in the lower part of the valve body.

9. Once the valve and the piping system have been pigged and before the customer's
product is introduced in the piping system, the valve must be placed in the partially open
position (approximately 10º to the fully open position). Any residual test fluid trapped in the
cavity of the valve body can then be drained through the drain port, which is located in the
lower part of the valve body. If the valve has been fitted with a stem extension, the drain plug
is located below the operator flange on the top of the stem extension.

10. The opening of the drain plug of the body will force the test fluid trapped in the body
cavity to exit. Keep the drain plug open until all the liquids have been expelled through the
body.

11. Close the drain plug of the body and put the valve in the fully open position or operating
position request.

Page 20 of 35
