—
FLOWSERVE
“id

Do not destroy

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8

A barrier layer which is (virtually) impermeable to water vapor

>€ and contains desiccants for corrosion protection is located
beneath the outer packaging. This protection will be ineffective

fr if the barrier layer is damaged. Since the symbol has not yet

Darrier l US] been approved by the ISO, puncturing of the outer shell must in
particular be avoided for any packages bearing the words
“Packed with desiccants”.
Tear off here D » > > This symbol is intended only for the receiver.
eProPoePos
4.2  Unpacking

4.3
4.3.1

4.3.2

Unpacking of the valves (and relevant operators when applicable) must be made in such a
way that no damage can occur to the exposed parts of the valves and their auxiliary
equipment.

In order to maintain the valves (and relevant operators when applicable) protected,
unpacking should be done just before installation, except for the case in which the valves must
be unpacked for inspection or for periodical stroke activities when applicable. Once the
inspection or the periodical stroke activities have been completed, the original packing must
be restored.

Handling
Packed Valves

Crates: Lifting and handling of the packed valves in crates will be carried out by a fork lift truck,
by means of the appropriate fork hitches.

Cases: The lifting of packed valves in cases should be carried out in the lifting points and at
the centre of gravity position which have been marked. The transportation of all packed
material must be carried out safely and following the local safety regulations.

Unpacked Valves

1. The lifting and the handling of these valves has to be carried out by using appropriate means
and by respecting the carrying limits. The handling must be carried out on pallets, protecting
the machined surfaces to avoid any damage.

2. With valves of large dimensions, the sling and the hooking of the load must be carried out
by using the appropriate tools (brackets, hook, fasteners, ropes) and load balancing tools in
order to prevent them from falling or moving during the lifting and handling.

The valves are equipped with lifting lugs: they represent the only lifting points that can be used.
Valves shall be lifted as per pictures shown below.

Valve equipped with manual gearbox/(electric actuator)

Page 14 of 35
