Va

e
FLOWSERVE
an Mme

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8

6  Commissioning

6.1

6.2

6.2.1

6.2.2

Periodic checks

Between installation and operation it is recommended to perform periodic checks and
maintenance operations described in par. 8.1.

Hydrostatic on-site testing recommendations

When the valve requires hydrostatic testing (before or after the installation in a piping system)
these instructions must be followed.

Test fluid

Hydrostatic tests must be carried out with fresh and clean water containing a water soluble
corrosion inhibitor and chloride/fluoride content not exceeding 30 ppm.

Air used for pneumatic test must be dry, clean and oil free (if applicable).

It is client responsibility to make sure that testing medium is
NOTICE conform to these recommendations and does not contain
any components/particles that may compromise the

correct valve functioning.

tis client responsibility to make sure that testing medium is conform to these recommendations
and does not contain any components/particles that may compromise the correct valve
unctioning.

Valve ready to be installed in a piping system

fthe valve is ready to be installed in a piping system and requires hydrostatic testing, please
ollow the Valbart Hydro Testing Procedure related to the specific job which the valve belong
o in conjunction with the instructions specified below.

Piping system pipes welded on the valve ends

n case the valve has been prepared with piping system pipes welded on the valve ends, the
piping system test pressures must be used.

Drying
1. The valve body cavity must be fully drained after completion of all tests and duly dried as

follows:

2. Drain the residue test liquid remaining the valve opening the drain port (remove the drain
plug or the drain/vent bleeder).

3. Flush the valve with compressed air from the vent port (vent/bleeder housing) in order to
optimize the drain.

4. Close the drain port (mount the drain plug or the drain/vent bleeder). Pay attention to
remount the PTFE seal(s) in case of the drain fitting is provided with.

5. Close the vent port (mount the vent bleeder). Pay attention to remount the PTFE seal(s) in
case of the vent/bleeder is provided with.

6. When accessible, proceed to aspirate the valve bore and the gaps between ball/seats
and seats/closures.

7. Dry and the internal bore of the valve.

Page 19 of 35
