a.
FLOWSERVE
Ne *

Valhart

VB2 User Instruction — MO2-LSS ENG rev. 8

To find your local Flowserve representative

or for more information about Flowserve Corporation,
visit www.flowserve.com or call USA 1 800 225 6989

Flowserve Corporation has established industry leadership in the design and manufacture ofits products. When
properly selected, this Flowserve product is designed to perform its intended function safely during its useful life.
However, the purchaser or user of Flowserve products should be aware that Flowserve product might be used
in numerous application under a wide variety of industrial service conditions. Although Flowserve can (and
often does) provide general guidelines, it cannot provide specific data and warnings for all possible
applications. The purchaser/user should read and understand the User Instructions: Installation Operation
Maintenance included with the product, and train its employees and contractors in the safe use of Flowserve
products in connection with its application

While the information and specifications contained in this literature are believed to be accurate, they are
supplied for informative purpose only and should not be considered certified or as a guaranteed of satisfactory
results by reliance thereon. Nothing contained herein is to be construed as a warranty or guarantee, express
or implied, regarding any matter with respect to the product. Because Flowserve is continually improving and
upgrading its product design, the specifications, dimensions and information contained herein are subject to
change without notice. Should any question arise concerning these provisions, the purchaser/user should
contact Flowserve Corporation at any one of its worldwide operations or offices.

O 2017 Flowserve Corporation, Irving, Texas, USA. Flowserve is a registered trademark of Flowserve Corporation

Page 35 of 35

Flowserve S.r.l.

FCO Division - Valbart Plant

Via delle industrie, 15

20883 Mezzago (MB) Italy
Telephone: +39 039 624111

Fax: +39 039 6241178

E-mail: valbart salesQflowserve.com
