XCL Series UltraSwitch
Position Indicator

Certificate / Certificat / Zertifikat / Ér4&RIE
FLO 1905142 C004

Systematic Capability: SC 3 (SIL 3 Capable)

Random Capability: Type A, Route 2, Device

PFH/PFDa,, and Architecture Constraints
must be verified for each application

Systematic Capability :

The product has met manufacturer design process requirements of Safety
Integrity Level (SIL) 3. These are intended to achieve sufficient integrity against
systematic errors of design by the manufacturer.

A Safety Instrumented Function (SIF) designed with this product must not be
used at a SIL level higher than stated.
Random Capability:

The SIL limit imposed by the Architectural Constraints must be met for each
element. This device meets exida criteria for Route 2,,.

Versions:

Group Description / Application Applicable Switch Codes

Namur Proximity Sensors N8, NP

Group 1 | MicroSwitches and Proximity Reed Switches, rated up
to 3 Amps and external Current Limiting / Protection

MG, P5, PE, PP, & PT

MicroSwitches (Applications with Switches rated up to
15 Amps)

Group 2 M1, MC, & MK

IEC 61508 Failure Rates in FIT!

forcimmtoramo Tia [o To [ão]

Group 1 — NAMUR Proximity Sensors,

MicroSwitches?, or Proximity Reed Switches?

Group 2 — MicroSwitches (Applications with
Switches rated up to 15 Amps)
“FIT =1 failure / 10º hours

2 Failure rates listed are only applicable if the switch contacts current is limited to 60% of the
switches rated capacity and the end user has added external transient protection if being used with
non-resistive loads.

SIL Verification:

The Safety Integrity Level (SIL) of an entire Safety Instrumented Function (SIF)
must be verified via a calculation of PFH/PFDa, considering redundant
architectures, proof test interval, proof test effectiveness, any automatic
diagnostics, average repair time and the specific failure rates of all products
included in the SIF. Each element must be checked to assure compliance with
minimum hardware fault tolerance (HFT) requirements.

The following documents are a mandatory part of certification:

Assessment Report: FLO 19/05-142 R005 V2R1 Switchbox Assessment
Report (or later)

Safety Manual: Ultra-Switch Safety Manual V1R2 (or later)

Page 2 of 2
